/*COMMANDS */

1. lscpu - information about you cpu and processing unit.
2. lshw - LIST HARDWARE --> A general purpose utility , that reports detailed abd berief information about multiple diffrent hardware units such as cpu, memory, disk, usbcontroller and network adapter etc. lshw exracts information from /proc virtual file system .
3. hwinfo - HARDWARE INFORMATION --> hwinfo is another general purpose hardware probing utility that can report detailed and brief information about diffrent hardware 
components , and more than what lshw can report.
4. lspci - LIST PCI(peripheral component interconnect ) ---> The lspci list out all the buses and details about the devices connected to them. The VGA adapter, graphic card , network dapter, usb port , sata controllers , etc all full under this category.
5. lsscsi - LIST SCSI DEVICES ---> Lists out all the scsi/sata devices like hard drives and optical derives .
6. lsusb - LIST USB BUSES AND DEVICE DETAIL ---> This commnad shows the usb cotrollers and details about devices connected to them. By default brief information is     printed.  Use the verbose option "-v" to print detailed information about each usb port.
7. lnxi ---> lnxi is 10K line mega bash  scripts  that fetches hardware details from  multiple diffrent sources and commands on the system , and generates a beautiful  looking report that non technical user can read eaisly.
8. lsblk - LIST BLOCK DEVICES ---> List out information all block devices , which are the hard-drive partition and other storage devices like optical drive and flash drive.
9. df - DISK SOACE FOR FILESYSTEM ---> reports the various partition , their mount points and the used and available space on each. 
10. pydf - Python df --> An Improved df version wrtitten in python that displays color output that looks better than df.
11. fdisk ---> Fdisk is a utility to modify partition on hard drive , and can be used to list out thr partition information as well.
12. mount ---> The mount is used to mount/ unmount and view the mounted filesystems.
13. free ---> Checks the amount of ram used , free , and total amount of RAM on system with the free command.
14. dmidecode ---> The dmidecode command is diffrent from all other commands . it extracts hardware information by reading data from SMBIOS data structures (also called DMI(direct media interface ) table ).
15. hdparm ---> The hdparm command gets information about sata devices like hard-disks. 

